0101_aws_notes.md, before:

### AWS Services 

# Santhiya Notes

## Compute
|Category             |Services                    |Description                                                   |
|---------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
|Instances(Virtul Machine)|Elastic cloud compute(EC2)   |  Provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It makes web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. |
||EC2 spot| A Spot Instance is an instance that uses spare EC2 capacity that is available for less than the On-Demand price. Because Spot Instances enable you to request unused EC2 instances at steep discounts, you can lower your Amazon EC2 costs significantly. The hourly price for a Spot Instance is called a Spot price.-Run fault-tolerant workloads for up to 90% off|
||EC2 AutoScaling|Automa¬tically add or remove compute capacity to meet changes in demand|
||LightSail|Designed to be the easiest way to launch & manage a virtual private server with AWS. An easy-t¬o-use cloud platform that offers everything need to build an application or website.|
||Batch|Enables developers, scientists, & engineers to easily & effici¬ently run hundreds of thousands of batch computing jobs on AWS. Fully managed batch processing at any scale.|

## Instance Pricing Model
|Instance type|pricing|
|-------------|-------|
|On-Demand|Billing by hour or second is applicable to users who do not need any upfront payment or long-term commitment.- For applications with Applications with short-term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.-For applications being developed or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time.|
|Reserved Instance| - Up to 72% off the On-Demand price.- Customers that can commit to using EC2 over a 1- or 3-year term to reduce their total computing costs- For applications with steady state usage.- For applications that may require reserved capacity|
|Dedicated Host|Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use, up to 70% off the On-Demand price.-For customers who need to use existing server-bound software licenses, including Windows Server, SQL Server, SUSE Server etc.- or customers who need to meet compliance requirements.- With On-Demand instances, you pay for compute capacity by the hour or the second depending on which instances you run. No longer-term commitments |
|Spot instance|Up to 90% off the On-Demand price.- For applications that have flexible start and end times.- For applications that are stateless or fault-tolerant.|



# Hakans Notes

  |       Topic      |  Name  |
  |------------------|--------|
  |Security Lifecycle| Mustafa|
  |    Antivirus     |  Hakan |
  |       IDS        |  Goce  |
  |    Guard Duty    |Santhiya|

What is the definition of AntiVirus ??
Antivirus software, also known as anti-malware, is a computer program used to prevent, detect, and remove malware. Antivirus software was originally developed to detect and remove computer viruses, hence the name.

Commit message:

Adding registry and orhestration notes

0101_aws_notes.md, after:

### AWS Services 

# Santhiya Notes

## Containers in AWS
Container management tools can be broken down into three categories: registry, orchestration, and compute.
## Compute
|Category             |Services                    |Description                                                   |
|---------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
|Instances(Virtul Machine)|Elastic cloud compute(EC2)   |  Provides secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It makes web-scale cloud computing easier for developers. |
||EC2 spot| A Spot Instance is an instance that uses spare EC2 capacity that is available for less than the On-Demand price. Because Spot Instances enable you to request unused EC2 instances at steep discounts, you can lower your Amazon EC2 costs significantly. The hourly price for a Spot Instance is called a Spot price.-Run fault-tolerant workloads for up to 90% off|
||EC2 AutoScaling|Automa¬tically add or remove compute capacity to meet changes in demand|
||LightSail|Designed to be the easiest way to launch & manage a virtual private server with AWS. An easy-t¬o-use cloud platform that offers everything need to build an application or website.|
||Batch|Enables developers, scientists, & engineers to easily & effici¬ently run hundreds of thousands of batch computing jobs on AWS. Fully managed batch processing at any scale.|
||AWS Fargate|AWS Fargate is a serverless compute engine for containers. Fargate makes it easy for you to focus on building your applications.|

## Resgitry
|Category             |Services                    |Description                                                   |
|---------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
|Container|Elastic Container Registry|Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR) is an AWS managed container image registry service that is secure, scalable, and reliable. Amazon ECR supports private repositories with resource-based permissions using AWS IAM. This is so that specified users or Amazon EC2 instances can access your container repositories and images. |
# Pricing for ECR
With Amazon ECR, you only pay for the amount of data you store in your repositories and for the data transfer from your image pushes and pulls. 

## Orchestration
|Category             |Services                    |Description                                                   |
|---------------------|----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
|Containers|Awazon Elastic Container Service | Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a fully managed container orchestration service that provides the most secure, reliable and scalable way to run containerized applications.|
||Amazon kubernet Service|Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) is a managed Kubernetes service that makes it easy for you to run Kubernetes on AWS and on-premises. Kubernetes is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.|


## Instance Pricing Model
|Instance type|pricing|
|-------------|-------|
|On-Demand|Billing by hour or second is applicable to users who do not need any upfront payment or long-term commitment.- For applications with Applications with short-term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.-For applications being developed or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time.|
|Reserved Instance| - Up to 72% off the On-Demand price.- Customers that can commit to using EC2 over a 1- or 3-year term to reduce their total computing costs- For applications with steady state usage.- For applications that may require reserved capacity|
|Dedicated Host|Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use, up to 70% off the On-Demand price.-For customers who need to use existing server-bound software licenses, including Windows Server, SQL Server, SUSE Server etc.- or customers who need to meet compliance requirements.- With On-Demand instances, you pay for compute capacity by the hour or the second depending on which instances you run. No longer-term commitments |
|Spot instance|Up to 90% off the On-Demand price.- For applications that have flexible start and end times.- For applications that are stateless or fault-tolerant.|



# Hakans Notes

  |       Topic      |  Name  |
  |------------------|--------|
  |Security Lifecycle| Mustafa|
  |    Antivirus     |  Hakan |
  |       IDS        |  Goce  |
  |    Guard Duty    |Santhiya|

What is the definition of AntiVirus ??
Antivirus software, also known as anti-malware, is a computer program used to prevent, detect, and remove malware. Antivirus software was originally developed to detect and remove computer viruses, hence the name.
